---
{"dg-home":false,"dg-publish":true,"locations":null,"aliases":["[[OSINT Project/Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]]-[[OSINT Project/Maps/Moscow, Central Federal District, Russia|Moscow]] Recruitment Office FIRST"],"location":"commissariat Lukhovitsy, Moscow Region","title":"[[OSINT Project/Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]]-[[OSINT Project/Maps/Moscow, Central Federal District, Russia|Moscow]] Recruitment Office FIRST","tag":"molotov, recruitment","date":"2022-02-28","linter-yaml-title-alias":"[[OSINT Project/Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]]-[[OSINT Project/Maps/Moscow, Central Federal District, Russia|Moscow]] Recruitment Office FIRST","permalink":"/lukhovitsy-moscow-recruitment-office-first/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


# [[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]]-[[Maps/Moscow, Central Federal District, Russia|Moscow]] Recruitment Office FIRST

2022-02-28  
Molotov  
Recruitment  
https://enoughisenough14.org/2022/06/26/shortly-after-the-longest-night-of-the-year-two-recruiting-offices-burned-at-once-chronicle-of-arson-attacks-until-june-25-2022-russia/  
1st recruitment office hit with Molotov cocktails in [[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]] near [[Moscow|Moscow]]. The first attack occurred on February 28, 2022 in the city of [[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]] in the [[Moscow|Moscow]] region. An unidentified person broke two windows of the recruitment office and threw Molotov cocktails into the office. In addition, the gates of the building were painted in the colors of the Ukrainian flag. No one was injured in the [[fire|fire]], but property damage was caused. The suspect was later [[arrested|arrested]] and criminal proceedings were initiated on charges of “vandalism”. It turned out that it was Kirill, a 21-year-old resident. On March 13, around 6 a.m., the suspected arsonist fled the police station and was put on the wanted list. He was [[arrested|arrested]] again in the evening on the same day.  
[[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]], [[Moscow|Moscow]] Region

The first [[fire|arson]] of the military commissariat, which became known to the media, was discovered, apparently, at the end of February–then the commissariat in [[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]] in the [[Moscow|Moscow]] region caught [[fire|fire]]. how wrote “Moskovsky Komsomolets”, 21-year-old local resident: on February 28, he broke a window and threw a [[Alcohol Distribution Disruption|drink]] with “Molotov cocktails” into it. “In addition, the gates of the military commissariat were painted in the color of the Ukrainian flag, and a provocative note about the [[Special Military Operation|special operation]] of the Russian Armed Forces was left,” the newspaper said. But the Kolomna media ([[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]] are located near this city) wrote about [[fire|arson]] only on March 9th. And the day before, in the telegram channel “VataHunters” appeared video, which shows how someone in the dark throws [[water|water]] into a one-story building, after which a [[fire|fire]] starts. The [[Moscow|Moscow]] Region police have not officially commented on the [[fire|arson]]. Details of the [[arrested|arrest]] of the “MK” arsonist–according to the newspaper, the [[arrested|arrest]] of the 21-year-old husband was possible only on March 8. And on March 13 he escaped from the police station, asking for time off to go to the toilet. In the evening of the same day, the press service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs officially announced that the police from [[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]] “located the location of the criminal” born in 2001, who died under the article “Vandalism” (214 of the Criminal Code). The police said that he “arbitrarily left the building of the police department,” but was re-[[arrested|detained]]. There is nothing unusual about the [[fire|arson]] of the military registration and enlistment office. https://europe-cities.com/2022/05/04/in-russia-after-the-invasion-of-ukraine-they-began-to-set-fire-to-military-registration-and-enlistment-offices/ FROM PARTISAN: The other day I set [[fire|fire]] to the military registration and enlistment office in [[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]], [[Moscow|Moscow]] region and filmed it on GoPro. I painted the gates in the colors of the Ukrainian flag and wrote: “I will not go kill my brothers!”, then climbed over the fence, poured gasoline on the front, broke the windows and sent Molotov cocktails into them. The aim was to destroy the archive with the personal files of the conscripts, which is located in this unit. This should prevent mobilization in the district. I hope that I won’t see mclassmates in captivity or in the lists of the dead. I think it should be spread. Ukrainians will know that people in Russia are fighting for them, not everyone is afraid and there are people who care. Our protesters should be inspired to act more radically. And this should break the spirit of the Russian army and government even more. Let these faggots know that their own people hate them and will extinguish them. The ground will soon [[fire|burn]] beneath their feet, hell awaits them at home as well. https://darknights.noblogs.org/post/2022/03/26/russia-numerous-attacks-against-military-recruitment-centers/ UPDATE: Meanwhile, details of the escape of the arsonist from the [[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]] recruitment office have emerged. MK journalists report that Kirill, a 21-year-old local resident, after setting [[fire|fire]] to the recruitment office on the night of February 28, dumped his phone and did not contact his family. He was [[arrested|arrested]] on the border between Belarus and Lithuania on March 8. The arsonist was immediately extradited and taken to the police station in [[Maps/Lukhovitsy, Lukhovitsky District, Moscow Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Lukhovitsy]]. Kirill told the police that he intended to go to the Ukraine territory, where the Russian Federation is carrying out a [[Special Military Operation|special operation]]. Criminal proceedings were initiated against him under the Criminal act, paragraph “Vandalism”. On March 13, in the early morning hours, he asked to go to the toilet. The man was handcuffed and taken to the toilet at the criminal investigation department. From there, Kirill took advantage of the inattention of the guards, jumped out the window and ran away. He managed to climb over a three-meter high chain-link fence and run in the direction of the M5 [[roads|highway]]. The fugitive’s tracks have now been found in the forest in the direction of Kolomna. https://enoughisenough14.org/2022/03/14/russia-new-guerrilla-attacks-on-military-recruiting-agencies/  
~+~  
123
