---
{"dg-home":false,"dg-publish":true,"locations":null,"aliases":["[[OSINT Project/Maps/Nizhnevartovsk, городской округ Нижневартовск, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, Russia|Nizhnevartovsk]] Recruitment Office"],"location":"Nizhnevartovsk","title":"[[OSINT Project/Maps/Nizhnevartovsk, городской округ Нижневартовск, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, Russia|Nizhnevartovsk]] Recruitment Office","tag":"molotov, recruitment","date":"2022-05-03","linter-yaml-title-alias":"[[OSINT Project/Maps/Nizhnevartovsk, городской округ Нижневартовск, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, Russia|Nizhnevartovsk]] Recruitment Office","permalink":"/nizhnevartovsk-recruitment-office/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


# [[Maps/Nizhnevartovsk, городской округ Нижневартовск, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, Russia|Nizhnevartovsk]] Recruitment Office

2022-05-03  
Molotov  
Recruitment  
https://sofrep.com/news/we-dont-wanna-go-russian-military-recruitment-offices-attacked-with-molotov-cocktails/  
The latest incident happened just a few days ago, on May 4, when two men in western [[Siberian Federal District|Siberia]] had attacked a conscription office with Molotov cocktails somewhere in the city of [[Maps/Nizhnevartovsk, городской округ Нижневартовск, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, Russia|Nizhnevartovsk]] at a time past midnight. One man had thrown seven Molotov cocktails through the window of the office, with his accomplice standing by behind him. In the nearly two-minute film from the [[Siberian Federal District|Siberian]] city of [[Maps/Nizhnevartovsk, городской округ Нижневартовск, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, Russia|Nizhnevartovsk]], a hooded man throws seven flaming Molotov cocktails through the windows of the Russian Army’s local recruiting office, which begins to [[fire|burn]]. Video https://t.me/black_book_of_capitalism/2028  
[[Maps/Nizhnevartovsk, городской округ Нижневартовск, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, Russia|Nizhnevartovsk]], [[Maps/Khanty-Mansiysk, Khanty-Mansiysk Urban Okrug, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, 628000, Russia|Khanty-Mansiysk]] Autonomous District, [[Siberian Federal District|Siberia]]

Date discrepancy - used earliest date night from May 3 to May 4, 2022, at 3:20 a.m. local time in [[Maps/Nizhnevartovsk, городской округ Нижневартовск, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, Russia|Nizhnevartovsk]] in the [[Maps/Khanty-Mansiysk, Khanty-Mansiysk Urban Okrug, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, 628000, Russia|Khanty-Mansiysk]] Autonomous District. Unknown persons threw bottles with flammable mixtures into a building. One of them extinguished immediately, the other one caught [[fire|fire]] in the wooden cladding, but it was quickly extinguished. One of the arsonists filmed the act with his cell phone. On May 13, 2022, media reported that the suspected arsonists had been [[arrested|arrested]]. They are two young men charged under the articles of the Criminal Code “Intentional destruction or damage of property” and “[[hooliganism|hooliganism]]”. https://enoughisenough14.org/2022/06/26/shortly-after-the-longest-night-of-the-year-two-recruiting-offices-burned-at-once-chronicle-of-arson-attacks-until-june-25-2022-russia/ In the barrage [[fire|fire]] of bombs, the office was set ablaze. Nobody seems to be inside the building. However, no official reports coming out of Russia can confirm this. Afterward, locals reported the [[fire|fire]] to the police at 3:20 am, to which the suspects were later caught. The two men were later charged with “intentional destruction or damage to property” and “[[hooliganism|hooliganism]]” however, it does not seem that the two men were caught by authorities. ~+~- Both the assassin and the man who filmed the incident were [[arrested|arrested]] a week later. Also: https://newsbeezer.com/swedeneng/wave-of-molotov-attacks-on-russian-recruiting-offices/ night of May 4, unknown people threw Molotov cocktails with Nizhny Novgorod at the military registration and enlistment office in the [[Maps/Khanty-Mansiysk, Khanty-Mansiysk Urban Okrug, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, 628000, Russia|Khanty-Mansiysk]] Autonomous Okrug. Video published channel Ural Mash. “Two unknown attacks occurred because of the night–they threw eight self-made shells into the building and set [[fire|fire]] to the lining of the hall on the first floor. Policemen happened nearby–they put out the [[fire|fire]]. Another prepared bottle remained on the spot, which did not go into action,” the channel says . According to Mash, windows were broken in the military enlistment office and the dressing room [[fire|burned]] out, but no one returned. Press service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for [[Maps/Khanty-Mansiysk, Khanty-Mansiysk Urban Okrug, Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous Okrug – Ugra, Ural Federal District, 628000, Russia|Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Okrug]] confirmed “Kommersant” information about the [[fire|arson]]. The investigating authorities opened criminal cases on intentional contamination or damage to property (Part 2 of Article 167 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation) and [[hooliganism|hooliganism]] (Article 213 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation). https://europe-cities.com/2022/05/04/in-russia-after-the-invasion-of-ukraine-they-began-to-set-fire-to-military-registration-and-enlistment-offices/

~+~  
33
