---
{"dg-home":false,"dg-publish":true,"locations":null,"aliases":["Shuya, [[OSINT Project/Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] Recruitment Office"],"location":"Shuya, Ivanovo","title":"Shuya, [[OSINT Project/Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] Recruitment Office","tag":"molotov, recruitment","date":"2022-03-18","linter-yaml-title-alias":"Shuya, [[OSINT Project/Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] Recruitment Office","permalink":"/shuya-ivanovo-recruitment-office/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


# Shuya, [[Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] Recruitment Office

2022-03-18  
Molotov  
Recruitment  
https://enoughisenough14.org/2022/06/26/shortly-after-the-longest-night-of-the-year-two-recruiting-offices-burned-at-once-chronicle-of-arson-attacks-until-june-25-2022-russia/  
[[fire|fire]] at Shuya Recruitment Office. night of March 18-19, 2022, in the town of Shuya in the [[Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] region. A [[Alcohol Distribution Disruption|drunk]] resident threw a Molotov cocktail through the window of the recruitment office. The arsonist was [[arrested|arrested]]. Judging by the photos that were published by the media, only the window of the building arose due to the [[fire|fire]]. == In the [[Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] region, FSB officers stopped the illegal activities of a local resident who tried to commit a terrorist act. "A 31-year-old man, in order to destabilize the activities of the authorities, set [[fire|fire]] to the military commissariat of the city of Shuya, [[Maps/Palekhsky District, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Palekhsky]] and Shuisky districts of [[Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] region by throwing a homemade incendiary device into the window of the building, which was localized in a timely manner," the press service of the regional FSB reports. On this fact, a criminal case has been initiated under Part 1 of Art. 205 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation - "Terrorist Act". Earlier, against the same defendant, the Investigative Committee initiated a criminal case under Part 3 of Article 30, Part 2 of Art. 167 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation (Deliberate destruction or damage to property). The court chose him a preventive measure in the form of [[arrested|detention]]. Maximum sanction for committing a crime under Part 1 of Art. 205 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation, is 15 years in [[prison|prison]]. https://www.ivanovonews.ru/news/1152616/  
Shuya, [[Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]]

Earliest date was used. on the night of March 18-19, an unknown person threw an incendiary mixture through the window of the local military registration and enlistment office, wrote edition of [[Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] News. Edition paid attentionthat on the same days “inscriptions expressing disapproval of [[Special Military Operation|special operations]] in Ukraine” appeared in Shuya. Colorful details of arsonist [[arrested|detention]] led another local publication, Ivanovskiye Novosti: “It took the security forces five hours to get the properties of a pyromaniac. After that, the resident of Shuya was drawn to exploits. The publication claims that the arsonist “thought out the escape plan in detail” and even changed his clothes “in a cinematic way”, but the police found him. The man was sent to a pre-trial [[prison|detention center]], but under what article a criminal case was initiated is unknown. https://europe-cities.com/2022/05/04/in-russia-after-the-invasion-of-ukraine-they-began-to-set-fire-to-military-registration-and-enlistment-offices/ Unclear is this is the same - In the [[Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] region, FSB officers stopped the illegal activities of a local resident who tried to commit a terrorist act. "A 31-year-old man, in order to destabilize the activities of the authorities, set [[fire|fire]] to the military commissariat of the city of Shuya, [[Maps/Palekhsky District, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, Russia|Palekhsky]] and Shuisky districts of [[Maps/Ivanovo, Ivanovo Oblast, Central Federal District, 153000, Russia|Ivanovo]] region by throwing a homemade incendiary device into the window of the building, which was localized in a timely manner," the press service of the regional FSB reports. On this fact, a criminal case has been initiated under Part 1 of Art. 205 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation - "Terrorist Act". Earlier, against the same defendant, the Investigative Committee initiated a criminal case under Part 3 of Article 30, Part 2 of Art. 167 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation (Deliberate destruction or damage to property). The court chose him a preventive measure in the form of [[arrested|detention]]. Maximum sanction for committing a crime under Part 1 of Art. 205 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation, is 15 years in [[prison|prison]]. https://www.ivanovonews.ru/news/1152616

~+~  
92
