---
{"dg-home":false,"dg-publish":true,"aliases":["Sverdlovsk, [[OSINT Project/Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]] Recruitment Office"],"location":"Berezovsky or Beryozovsky, Sverdlovsk region","locations":"56°54′N 60°49′E","title":"Sverdlovsk, [[OSINT Project/Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]] Recruitment Office","tag":"molotov, recruitment","date":"2022-03-10","linter-yaml-title-alias":"Sverdlovsk, [[OSINT Project/Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]] Recruitment Office","permalink":"/sverdlovsk-berezovsky-recruitment-office/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


# Sverdlovsk, [[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]] Recruitment Office

[[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]] or [[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Beryozovsky]], Sverdlovsk region  

2022-03-10  
Molotov  
Recruitment  
https://enoughisenough14.org/2022/06/26/shortly-after-the-longest-night-of-the-year-two-recruiting-offices-burned-at-once-chronicle-of-arson-attacks-until-june-25-2022-russia/  
March 10, 2022 in the city of [[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Beryozovsky]] in the Sverdlovsk region. An unknown person set [[fire|fire]] to a door. The flames were noticed by traffic police, who called the [[fire|fire]] department and [[arrested|arrested]] the arsonist. It turned out that he was a 24-year-old consultant of an electronics store. During the search of his apartment canisters with gasoline were found. The investigating authorities opened a criminal case for “attempted murder”. == On March 13, 2022, employees of the garbage removal company reported another [[fire|arson]] attack. According to the employees’ account, a 25-year-old shopkeeper protesting against the sending of conscripts to Ukraine threw a Molotov cocktail in front of the building of the Military Commissariat on Revolutsionnaya Street (the name of the town is not mentioned, most likely it refers to [[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]]) at around 5 am. Unfortunately, the arsonist is [[arrested|arrested]] and charged with attempted murder, as the security guard was in the building when the attack took place. The security guard was not injured. https://enoughisenough14.org/2022/03/14/russia-new-guerrilla-attacks-on-military-recruiting-agencies/  
[[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]] or [[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Beryozovsky]], Sverdlovsk region  
56°54′N 60°49′E  
AKA [[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Beryozovsky]] Date discrepancy - used earliest date. Place discrepancy - could not find street name of enlistment office in [[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]]. Did find one in Samara some 600 miles away. Sverdlovsk Oblast borders with, clockwise from the west, [[Maps/Perm Krai, Volga Federal District, Russia|Perm Krai]], the Komi Republic, Khanty–Mansi Autonomous Okrug, Tyumen Oblast, Kurgan, and Chelyabinsk Oblasts, and the Republic of Bashkortostan. In 1993, Governor Eduard Rossel responded to perceived economic inequality by attempting to create a "Ural Republic." Sverdlovsk led the "[[Urals Five|Urals Five]]" ([[Kurgan Oblast|Kurgan Oblast]], [[Orenburg Oblast|Orenburg Oblast]], [[Perm Krai|Perm Krai]], [[Chelyabinsk Oblast|Chelyabinsk Oblast]] and [[Sverdlovsk|Sverdlovsk]]) in a call for greater regional power. They argued that the oblasts deserved as much power as the ethnic homeland republics. The [[Urals Republic Constitution|Urals Republic Constitution]] went into effect on October 27, 1993. Then Russian President Boris Yeltsin dissolved the Urals Republic and the Sverdlovsk Parliament 10 days later (on November 9). a young man suggested setting [[fire|fire]] to the building of the military commissariat in the city of [[Maps/Beryozovsky, Берёзовский городской округ, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Ural Federal District, 623700, Russia|Berezovsky]] in the Sverdlovsk region. It happened on the night of March 11, but it didn’t happen until a few days later. how wrote “Komsomolskaya Pravda”, the [[fire|fire]] was set up by a 24-year-old consultant of an electronics store. The male set [[fire|fire]] to the entrance to the building, the traffic police noticed the flame. Indeed, the recruiting office told E1 that the attempt to set [[fire|fire]] to the door “was unsuccessful” and the property “did not happen.” The source of the publication claims that during the [[arrested|arrest]], the arsonist “confessed that he wanted to disrupt the recruiting meeting.” On March 12, the court sent the man to a pre-trial [[prison|detention center]]. He is charged with “attempt to kill” (part 3, article 30, paragraphs “e”, “e”, “i” part 2, article 105 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation). Protection relaxation appeal this decision, but to no avail. https://europe-cities.com/2022/05/04/in-russia-after-the-invasion-of-ukraine-they-began-to-set-fire-to-military-registration-and-enlistment-offices/

~+~  
133
